paper/paper.md, before:

---
title: 'insight: Easy Access to Model Information for Various Model Objects'
tags:
  - R
  - model information
  - regression models
authors:
  - name: Daniel Lüdecke
    orcid: 0000-0002-8895-3206
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Philip D. Waggoner
    orcid: 0000-0002-7825-7573
    affiliation: 2
  - name: Dominique Makowski
    orcid: 0000-0001-5375-9967
    affiliation: 3
affiliations:
  - name: University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Germany
    index: 1
  - name: College of William & Mary, Virginia
    index: 2
  - name: Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
    index: 3
date: 23 April 2019
bibliography: paper.bib
---

# Summary

When fitting any statistical model, there are many useful pieces of information that are simultaneously calculated and stored beyond coefficient estimates and general model fit statistics. Although there exist some generic functions to obtain model information and data, many package-specific modeling functions do not provide such methods to allow users to access such valuable information. 

*insight* is an R-package [@rcore] that fills this important gap by providing a suite of functions to support almost any model (see a list of the many models supported below in the **Supported Models** section). The goal of *insight*, then, is to provide tools to provide *easy*, *intuitive*, and *consistent* access to information contained in model objects. Ultimately, the development of *insight* is in line with the overall philosophy of the [easystats project](https://github.com/easystats), which is to facilitate and streamline the process of doing statistical analysis and reporting the results in the R programming language. 

Built with non-programmers in mind, *insight* offers a broad toolbox for making model and data information easily accessible, revolving around two key prefixes: `get_*` and `find_*`. Generally, the `get_*` prefix extracts values associated with model-specific objects (e.g., parameters or algorithms), while the `find_*` prefix lists model-specific objects (e.g., priors and predictors). In total, the *insight* package includes 16 core functions: `get_data()`, `get_priors()`, `get_variance()`, `get_parameters()`, `get_predictors()`, `get_random()`, `get_response()`, `find_algorithm()`, `find_formula()`, `find_variables()`, `find_terms()`, `find_parameters()`, `find_predictors()`, `find_random()`, `find_response()`, and `model_info()`. In all cases, users must supply at a minimum, the name of the model fit object. In several functions, there are additional arguments that allow for more targeted returns of model information. For example, the `find_terms()` function's `effects` argument allows for the extraction of "fixed effects" terms, "random effects" terms, or by default, "all" terms in the model object. We point users to the package documentation or the complementary package website, https://easystats.github.io/insight/, for a detailed list of the arguments associated with each function as well as the returned values from each function.

![The functions in insight allow users to access different aspects of models, such as the data used for fitting, the parameters of the fitted model or various information about the model.](figure2.png)

For a more intuitive introduction, consider the following examples for three major types of models: ordinary least squares (OLS) regression, linear mixed effects models, and Bayesian models. Importantly, though only a few functions are included below for the sake of space, users are encouraged to inspect the package documentation for an exhaustive list of package functionality with accompanying examples.

## Examples

```{R}
# Load the "insight" package
install.packages("insight")
library(insight)

# Sample model 1: OLS
sample1 <- lm(mpg ~ cyl + wt + hp, data = mtcars)

get_parameters(sample1)
#>     parameter   estimate
#> 1 (Intercept) 38.7517874
#> 2         cyl -0.9416168
#> 3          wt -3.1669731
#> 4          hp -0.0180381

find_algorithm(sample1)
#> $algorithm
#> [1] "OLS"

find_formula(sample1)
#> $conditional
#> mpg ~ cyl + wt + hp


# Sample model 2: Linear Mixed Effects (via lme4)
sample2 <- lme4::lmer(
  Reaction ~ Days + (Days | Subject), 
  data = sleepstudy
)

get_parameters(sample2)
#>     parameter  estimate
#> 1 (Intercept) 251.40510
#> 2        Days  10.46729

find_algorithm(sample2)
#> $algorithm
#> [1] "REML"
#> 
#> $optimizer
#> [1] "nloptwrap"

find_formula(sample2)
#> $conditional
#> Reaction ~ Days
#> 
#> $random
#> ~Days | Subject


# Sample model 3: Bayesian (via rstanarm)
sample3 <- rstanarm::stan_glm(
  Sepal.Width ~ Species * Petal.Length, 
  data = iris
)

get_priors(sample3)
#>                        parameter distribution location scale
#> 1                    (Intercept)       normal        0  10.0
#> 2              Speciesversicolor       normal        0   2.5
#> 3               Speciesvirginica       normal        0   2.5
#> 4                   Petal.Length       normal        0   2.5
#> 5 Speciesversicolor:Petal.Length       normal        0   2.5
#> 6  Speciesvirginica:Petal.Length       normal        0   2.5

find_algorithm(sample3)
#> $algorithm
#> [1] "sampling"
#> 
#> $chains
#> [1] 4
#> 
#> $iterations
#> [1] 2000
#> 
#> $warmup
#> [1] 1000

find_formula(sample3)
#> $conditional
#> Sepal.Width ~ Species * Petal.Length
```

## Supported Models

*insight* works with many different model-objects, such as **AER** (*ivreg, tobit*), **afex** (*mixed*), **base** (*aov, aovlist, lm, glm*), **betareg** (*betareg*), **blme** (*blmer, bglmer*), **brms** (*brmsfit*), **crch**, **countreg** (*zerontrunc*), **coxme**, **estimatr** (*lm_robust, iv_robust*), **feisr** (*feis*), **gam** (*Gam*), **gamm4** , **gamlss**, **gbm**, **gee**, **geepack** (*geeglm*), **GLMMadaptive** (*MixMod*), **glmmTMB** (*glmmTMB*), **gmnl**, **lfe** (*felm*), **lme4** (*lmer, glmer, nlmer, glmer.nb*), **MASS** (*glmmPQL, polr*), **mgcv** (*gam, gamm*), **multgee** (*LORgee*), **nnet** (*multinom*), **nlme** (*lme, gls*), **ordinal** (*clm, clm2, clmm*), **plm**, **pscl** (*zeroinf, hurdle*), **quantreg** (*rq, crq, rqss*), **rms** (*lsr, psm*), **robust** (*glmRob, lmRob*), **robustbase** (*glmrob, lmrob*), **robustlmm** (*rlmer*), **rstanarm** (*stanreg, stanmvreg*), **survey**, **survival** (*coxph, survreg*), **truncreg** (*truncreg*), **VGAM** (*vgam, vglm*), and more.

## Licensing and Package Access

*insight* is licensed under the GNU General Public License (v3.0), with all source code stored at GitHub (https://github.com/easystats/insight), with a corresponding issue tracker for bug-reporting and feature enhancements. In the spirit of open science and research, we encourage interaction with our package through requests/tips for fixes, support for additional model objects, feature updates, as well as general questions and concerns via direct interaction with contributors and developers.

# References

Commit message:

Significantly reworked front end
Addressed many points on the front end, specifically dealing with: 
1. a clearer statement of need
2. clarification of differences between `get_*` and `find_*`
3. new section and front end addition for "entry point"/where to start for the modal user (i.e., with `model_info()`, per the reviewer's comments)
4. edited/cleaned discussion throughout to read more cleanly (hopefully...)

paper/paper.md, after:

---
title: 'insight: Easy Access to Model Information for Various Model Objects'
tags:
  - R
  - model information
  - regression models
authors:
  - name: Daniel Lüdecke
    orcid: 0000-0002-8895-3206
    affiliation: 1
  - name: Philip D. Waggoner
    orcid: 0000-0002-7825-7573
    affiliation: 2
  - name: Dominique Makowski
    orcid: 0000-0001-5375-9967
    affiliation: 3
affiliations:
  - name: University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Germany
    index: 1
  - name: College of William & Mary, Virginia, U.S.
    index: 2
  - name: Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
    index: 3
date: 23 April 2019
bibliography: paper.bib
---

# Summary

When fitting any statistical model, there are many useful pieces of information that are simultaneously calculated and stored beyond coefficient estimates and general model fit statistics. Although there exist some generic functions to obtain model information and data, many package-specific modeling functions do not provide such methods to allow users to access such valuable information. 

*insight* is an R-package [@rcore] that fills this important gap by providing a suite of functions to support almost any model (see a list of the many models supported below in the **Supported Models** section). The goal of *insight*, then, is to provide tools to provide *easy*, *intuitive*, and *consistent* access to information contained in model objects. These tools aid applied research in virtually any field who fit, diagnose, and present statistical models by streamlining access to every aspect of many model objects via consistent syntax and output.

Ultimately, the development of *insight* is in line with the philosophy of the [easystats project](https://github.com/easystats), which is to facilitate and streamline the process of doing statistical analysis and reporting the results in the R programming language. 

## Getting Up and Running with *insight*

Built with non-programmers in mind, *insight* offers a broad toolbox for making model and data information easily accessible. While *insight* offers many useful functions for working with and understanding model objects (discussed below), we suggest users start with `model_info()`, as this function provides a clean and consistent overview of model objects (e.g., functional form of the model, the model family, link function, number of observations, variables included in the specification, etc.). With a clear understanding of the model introduced, users are able to adapt other functions for more nuanced exploration of and interaction with virtually any model object. 

Thus, building on this starting place, the remainder of the package revolves around two key prefixes: `get_*` and `find_*`. The `get_*` prefix extracts *values* associated with model-specific objects (e.g., parameters or algorithms), while the `find_*` prefix *lists* model-specific objects (e.g., priors and predictors). These are powerful families of functions allowing for great flexibility in use, whether at a high, descriptive level (`find_*`) or narrower level of statistical inspection and reporting (`get_*`).

In total, the *insight* package includes 16 core functions: `get_data()`, `get_priors()`, `get_variance()`, `get_parameters()`, `get_predictors()`, `get_random()`, `get_response()`, `find_algorithm()`, `find_formula()`, `find_variables()`, `find_terms()`, `find_parameters()`, `find_predictors()`, `find_random()`, `find_response()`, and `model_info()`. In all cases, users must supply at a minimum, the name of the model fit object. In several functions, there are additional arguments that allow for more targeted returns of model information. For example, the `find_terms()` function's `effects` argument allows for the extraction of "fixed effects" terms, "random effects" terms, or by default, "all" terms in the model object. We point users to the package documentation or the complementary package website, https://easystats.github.io/insight/, for a detailed list of the arguments associated with each function as well as the returned values from each function.

![The functions in insight allow users to access different aspects of models, such as the data used for fitting, the parameters of the fitted model or various information about the model.](figure2.png)

For a more intuitive introduction, consider the following examples for three major types of models: ordinary least squares (OLS) regression, linear mixed effects models, and Bayesian models. Importantly, though only a few functions are included below for the sake of space, users are encouraged to inspect the package documentation for an exhaustive list of package functionality with accompanying examples.

## Examples

```{R}
# Load the "insight" package
install.packages("insight")
library(insight)

# Sample model 1: OLS
sample1 <- lm(mpg ~ cyl + wt + hp, data = mtcars)

get_parameters(sample1)
#>     parameter   estimate
#> 1 (Intercept) 38.7517874
#> 2         cyl -0.9416168
#> 3          wt -3.1669731
#> 4          hp -0.0180381

find_algorithm(sample1)
#> $algorithm
#> [1] "OLS"

find_formula(sample1)
#> $conditional
#> mpg ~ cyl + wt + hp


# Sample model 2: Linear Mixed Effects (via lme4)
sample2 <- lme4::lmer(
  Reaction ~ Days + (Days | Subject), 
  data = sleepstudy
)

get_parameters(sample2)
#>     parameter  estimate
#> 1 (Intercept) 251.40510
#> 2        Days  10.46729

find_algorithm(sample2)
#> $algorithm
#> [1] "REML"
#> 
#> $optimizer
#> [1] "nloptwrap"

find_formula(sample2)
#> $conditional
#> Reaction ~ Days
#> 
#> $random
#> ~Days | Subject


# Sample model 3: Bayesian (via rstanarm)
sample3 <- rstanarm::stan_glm(
  Sepal.Width ~ Species * Petal.Length, 
  data = iris
)

get_priors(sample3)
#>                        parameter distribution location scale
#> 1                    (Intercept)       normal        0  10.0
#> 2              Speciesversicolor       normal        0   2.5
#> 3               Speciesvirginica       normal        0   2.5
#> 4                   Petal.Length       normal        0   2.5
#> 5 Speciesversicolor:Petal.Length       normal        0   2.5
#> 6  Speciesvirginica:Petal.Length       normal        0   2.5

find_algorithm(sample3)
#> $algorithm
#> [1] "sampling"
#> 
#> $chains
#> [1] 4
#> 
#> $iterations
#> [1] 2000
#> 
#> $warmup
#> [1] 1000

find_formula(sample3)
#> $conditional
#> Sepal.Width ~ Species * Petal.Length
```

## Supported Models

*insight* works with many different model-objects, such as **AER** (*ivreg, tobit*), **afex** (*mixed*), **base** (*aov, aovlist, lm, glm*), **betareg** (*betareg*), **blme** (*blmer, bglmer*), **brms** (*brmsfit*), **crch**, **countreg** (*zerontrunc*), **coxme**, **estimatr** (*lm_robust, iv_robust*), **feisr** (*feis*), **gam** (*Gam*), **gamm4** , **gamlss**, **gbm**, **gee**, **geepack** (*geeglm*), **GLMMadaptive** (*MixMod*), **glmmTMB** (*glmmTMB*), **gmnl**, **lfe** (*felm*), **lme4** (*lmer, glmer, nlmer, glmer.nb*), **MASS** (*glmmPQL, polr*), **mgcv** (*gam, gamm*), **multgee** (*LORgee*), **nnet** (*multinom*), **nlme** (*lme, gls*), **ordinal** (*clm, clm2, clmm*), **plm**, **pscl** (*zeroinf, hurdle*), **quantreg** (*rq, crq, rqss*), **rms** (*lsr, psm*), **robust** (*glmRob, lmRob*), **robustbase** (*glmrob, lmrob*), **robustlmm** (*rlmer*), **rstanarm** (*stanreg, stanmvreg*), **survey**, **survival** (*coxph, survreg*), **truncreg** (*truncreg*), **VGAM** (*vgam, vglm*), and more.

## Licensing and Package Access

*insight* is licensed under the GNU General Public License (v3.0), with all source code stored at GitHub (https://github.com/easystats/insight), with a corresponding issue tracker for bug-reporting and feature enhancements. In the spirit of open science and research, we encourage interaction with our package through requests/tips for fixes, support for additional model objects, feature updates, as well as general questions and concerns via direct interaction with contributors and developers.

# References
